README.md, before:

# Parallel Environment

Final Project for CS6068:  Parallel Computing. FS 2019

Group:
* Samual Buzas
* Saylee Dharne
* Nicholas Maltbie

Attempt to create an environment with procedural terrain, boids, and clouds.

## Development Environment

We are going to use Unity v19.2.11f1. For full information on the development environment and how to setup for contributing, see [Development.md](Development.md)

## Project Goals

Our goal is to make a configurable environment with interactive components like boids and clouds. Here are a few images from Sebastian League's GitHub repositories that model what we would look to achieve

[Mountains](https://github.com/SebLague/Hydraulic-Erosion/)
![Erosion to create a mountainous environment](Reference/erossion.png)

[Clouds](https://github.com/SebLague/Clouds)
![Clouds in a mountainous environment](Reference/clouds.png)

[Boids](https://github.com/SebLague/Boids)
![Boids moving through an obstacle course](Reference/boids.png)

## Reference Material

The main ideas of this project are inspired from [Sebastian League's Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmtyQOKKmrMVaKuRXz02jbQ). Here are some of his projects that we are referencing
* Coding Adventure: Boids — [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bqtqltqcQhw) | [GitHub](https://github.com/SebLague/Boids)
* Coding Adventure: Clouds - [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4QOcCGI6xOU) | [GitHub](https://github.com/SebLague/Clouds)
* Coding Adventure: Compute Shaders — [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9RHGLZLUuwc) | [GitHub](https://github.com/SebLague/Hydraulic-Erosion)
* Coding Adventure: Hydraulic Erosion — [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eaXk97ujbPQ) | [GitHub](https://github.com/SebLague/Hydraulic-Erosion/tree/Coding-Adventure-E01) 

Other Resources:
* David Kuri's "GPU Ray Tracing in Unity" Articles. 2018. [Article link](http://blog.three-eyed-games.com/2018/05/03/gpu-ray-tracing-in-unity-part-1/)

Commit message:

Added Project Proposal and realted diagrams (#1)
* Added Project Proposal and realted diagrams

* Added changes to readme

README.md, after:

# Parallel Environment

Final Project for CS6068:  Parallel Computing. FS 2019

Group:
* Samual Buzas
* Saylee Dharne
* Nicholas Maltbie

Attempt to create an environment with procedural terrain, boids, and clouds.

## Development Environment

We are going to use Unity v19.2.11f1. For full information on the development environment and how to setup for contributing, see [Development.md](Development.md)

## Contribution Guidelines

Please see [Contributing.md](Contributing.md) for details about adding to the project.

## Project Proposal

For a detailed description of the project, see [ProjectProposal.md](ProjectProposal.md) for more details. 

## Project Goals

Our goal is to make a configurable environment with interactive components like boids and clouds. Here are a few images from Sebastian League's GitHub repositories that model what we would look to achieve

[Mountains](https://github.com/SebLague/Hydraulic-Erosion/)
![Erosion to create a mountainous environment](Reference/erossion.png)

[Clouds](https://github.com/SebLague/Clouds)
![Clouds in a mountainous environment](Reference/clouds.png)

[Boids](https://github.com/SebLague/Boids)
![Boids moving through an obstacle course](Reference/boids.png)

## Reference Material

The main ideas of this project are inspired from [Sebastian League's Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmtyQOKKmrMVaKuRXz02jbQ). Here are some of his projects that we are referencing
* Coding Adventure: Boids — [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bqtqltqcQhw) | [GitHub](https://github.com/SebLague/Boids)
* Coding Adventure: Clouds - [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4QOcCGI6xOU) | [GitHub](https://github.com/SebLague/Clouds)
* Coding Adventure: Compute Shaders — [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9RHGLZLUuwc) | [GitHub](https://github.com/SebLague/Hydraulic-Erosion)
* Coding Adventure: Hydraulic Erosion — [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eaXk97ujbPQ) | [GitHub](https://github.com/SebLague/Hydraulic-Erosion/tree/Coding-Adventure-E01) 

Other Resources:
* David Kuri's "GPU Ray Tracing in Unity" Articles. 2018. [Article link](http://blog.three-eyed-games.com/2018/05/03/gpu-ray-tracing-in-unity-part-1/)
